---
title: "Open_Pong: Introducing; ROUGE"
date: 2021-07-20
---
## Cleaning Up
Sorry for the lack of introduction or posts about Open_Pong but it is currently my main project with OpenGL, my aim is to create Pong but its 'modern', something similar to the likes of Tetris Effect. Anyway, after setting up a OpenGL base (from my own repo) I got going on making new classes, objects and more.
At first, it wasnt too hard although making the ball was quite hard until I figured out I could just layer a circular ball texture on top of a square, whoops. Not only did I continue using ROML for all my math functions I also decided to make my own physics functions such as hit detection, velocity, movement etc. because why not!
After making the base game I started making a GUI for all the objects so I could edit, see and analyse the values from the objects to help me develop the game. Although it was functioning, the code was messy so I sorted them all out in classes all neatly and made a parent class with common function and variables so it would be even neater.

### What's ROUGE?
ROUGE stands for Rangga' Opensource Ultimate Game Engine, to be honest I only added the 'Ultimate' because ROGE didn't sound to good. ROUGE uses a singular parent class that can control, update, render objects. Along with this, I paired it up with the already existing GUI system (after the GUI class had a few revamps to make it much more neater) to make it even better!
Currently, I just added a few more features that would allow me to pause the gameplay and use a framestepp in-case I needed to see details up-close.

Although i would love to show the code this post would probably excede the character limits so instead visit [here](https://github.com/ghostly-developer/OpenPong} to dive deeper into OpenPong (or should I call it Pong Effect?).

If you are more interested with the visual results look no further than here:
<iframe width="480" height="360" src="https://youtu.be/8rwLLN-M9Bk" frameborder="0"> </iframe>
A timelapse will probably be released soon showing the progression of development.
Hope you enjoyed reading!
