---
layout: post
title: "Open_Pong: Powerups"
date: 2021-08-04
author: "AsianMario"
categories: projects
tags: [proj]
image: powerup.png
---

## Spawning Powerups

During the past few days I have been working on the particle systems making sure everything works as they should. After some more polishing and fixes I decided to move onto the powerups. Technically, powerups were just like any GameObject in the game but with a randomized spawn and can affect other GameObjects. I created the PowerupSpawner class that would be in-charge of spawning the objects and would have functions that would make creating, deleting and updating powerups easier. The class also consisted of a string array which had all the powerups available to choose from. There is also a max spawn integer variable that would limit the spawn rate and spawn amount of the powerups. Along with this, a active spawn variable is made to track how many powerups are spawned. To randomly spawn any powerup I would make a variable called `currentPowerup` that would choose a random index according to the index of the array. For example, if I had an array with the length of 3 I would define `currentPowerup` as `rand() % 3`. This would randomly choose a number between 0 to 2 which matches the length of the array (initialize srand() to actually get random results). The update function of the class would call a specified powerup spawn according to `currentPowerup`'s value as long that the current number of powerups are equal or less than the `maxSpawn` amount. The class also has its own CPP vector which would store all the powerups in a list, they would be added to the vector when they are called to be spawned. Finally, there's the delete function that would set the powerup as a nullpointer in the vector, reduce the active powerup amount and choose another random powerup to spawn. The reason why I dont delete the GameObject is due to the fact that the powerup calls both the `PowerupSpawner` delete and `Game`'s delete. Since `Game` already deletes the GameObject, I cant delete it twice. So instead the `PowerupSpawner` delete sets its position in the vector to a nullpointer instead.

# Implementing The Powerup

Next up, I made a powerup that would increases the ball's radius and scale when the ball hits the powerup. I plan to add more visual effects, camera effects and more but currently I've just implemented the basics for testing. The `BallPlus` powerup would have is own spawn inside the update function which is essentially simialr to `Game`'s spawn function but due to it needing special values I just made it its process in the update function. On hit, the update would call the `delayEffect()` function which would reset the values of the ball to its original value after a few seconds (in this case, BallPlus has an effect time of 5 seconds). After it resets all the values it calls the `Game` & `PowerupSpawner` delete to destroy the object and set it as a nullpointer in all of the vectors its stored in

Since the powerup system is going to have a variety of powerups and I'm still working on fixing a few bugs and issues this feature will take a while to complete. Along with this, a texture revamp is currently in progress to prepare for the next set of features which will be visual effects and camera effects.
